RKT-MIL-STD-001
ENVIRONMENTAL RESISTANCE STANDARD FOR ELECTRONIC CONTROL UNITS

Document Version: 1.0
Document Class: Training Technical Document

1. PURPOSE

This document is designed to define the operating requirements of electronic control units under environmental conditions.

The standard covers operating temperature, storage temperature, humidity, vibration, mechanical shock, altitude, and power requirements.

The values ​​given in this document are hypothetical technical requirements created for use within the scope of the workshop only.

2. OPERATING TEMPERATURE

The electronic control unit must be able to operate normally in ambient temperatures between -40 °C and +85 °C.

The system must be operated at -40 °C for at least 2 hours.

The system must be operated at +85 °C for at least 4 hours.

No performance loss should occur in the basic functions of the system during the temperature test.

3. STORAGE TEMPERATURE

The electronic control unit must be able to be stored at temperatures between -55 °C and +125 °C when not in operation.

After the storage test, the system should be brought to room temperature and, after a minimum of 30 minutes, a functional test should be performed.

Physical deformation or loss of electronic function after the storage test is unacceptable.

4. HUMIDITY RESISTANCE

The system must be able to operate up to 95% relative humidity.

The humidity test should be performed at an ambient temperature of +40 °C.

The test duration should be 48 hours.

At the end of the test, no condensation should occur in the system to the extent that it would cause an electrical short circuit or loss of function.

5. VIBRATION TEST

The system must be resistant to vibrations between 10 Hz and 2000 Hz.

The vibration test should be applied separately in the X, Y, and Z axes.

The test duration should be 30 minutes per axis.

The electronic control unit must be actively operating during the test.

No loosening of connecting elements, mechanical damage, or interruption of system functions should occur during the vibration test.

6. MECHANICAL SHOCK TEST

The electronic control unit must be able to withstand a maximum mechanical shock level of 40 g.

The duration of the shock pulse should be 11 milliseconds.

The test should be applied in the positive and negative directions on the X, Y, and Z axes.

Three shock pulses should be applied in each direction.

The system should be able to perform its normal functions after the test.

7. ALTITUDE REQUIREMENTS

The electronic control unit must be able to operate up to an altitude of 5000 meters above sea level.

The system must be kept active during the low-pressure test.

The test duration should be a minimum of 60 minutes.

No interruption of communication and control functions should occur during the test.

8. POWER REQUIREMENTS

The nominal operating voltage of the electronic control unit is 28 V DC.

The system must be able to operate normally with input voltages between 22 V DC and 32 V DC.

The nominal power consumption should not exceed 60 W.

The system can consume a maximum of 90 W of power at startup.

The system should not suffer permanent damage in case of reverse polarity.

9. POST-TEST ACCEPTANCE CRITERIA

After the completion of environmental tests, a functional test must be applied to the electronic control unit.

All of the following conditions must be met:

- The system must be able to power on.
- Communication functions must be working.
- Sensor inputs must be read correctly.
- Control outputs must be working.
- There should be no permanent mechanical deformation.
- There should be no physical damage to electronic components.

If any of these requirements are not met, the system will be considered to have failed the environmental durability test.

10. SUMMARY

The electronic control unit must:

Operate between -40 °C and +85 °C,
Be able to be stored between -55 °C and +125 °C,
Withstand 95% relative humidity,
Operate in a vibration environment between 10 Hz and 2000 Hz,
Withstand 40 g of mechanical shock,
Operate up to an altitude of 5000 meters,
And function with an input voltage between 22 V DC and 32 V DC.